OK, this video is probably not suitable for children, and it is
uh ... It's insane, in many different ways.
And certainly if you are a man. So, as you know,
on Smarter Every Day I try to keep everything intelligent and respectful, but this one
video is crazy. You have to think carefully whether you want to watch this or not.
Because now that I know this happens, I have nightmares.
And they are not good ... [laughs] They are not good nightmares, you know?
So think carefully whether you want to know this information or not. Do you want to know?
OK ... Introduction.
- Talk to me. Give an introduction now. [DESTIN]: Hello, this is Destin. Welcome to Smarter Every Day.
I am in the Amazon rainforest. [scream like a little girl] - [laugh] [blows] Yes!
- Now that we are talking about the penis tree, what he does is:
well ... yes. This is ... actually the
number 3 most poisonous spider on the world.
Phoneutria fera.
I will stay so far away. - They are very aggressive
Do we have to look at how aggressive they are?
- Okay, he probably jumps down, but we're trying to get him to pose better for the camera.
- Oh .. Oh, no she goes ... [DESTIN]: Wow, he's fast
- Who is going to do him on his face? - No!
- Do it. - OK. - He also causes a problem in men, called a priapism
[DESTIN]: Priapism. Oh yes, ice water enema to treat that? - Yeah.
OK, this spider is called the Brazillian Wandering Spider (Phoneutria). And if you listened to what Phil said,
you heard that it causes a problem in men. I assume that this does not apply to women.
And there are few things I can think of that happen only to men, and not to women.
But we'll come back to that.
- If you look under that front leg, you see the tires. Black, white and black.
Can you see that from that angle? Do you see it? - Yes.
- So when he gets very angry, he throws it in the air, and then you see that black-white-black-white.
That's kind of a warning sign.
[DESTIN]: Is it a Wandering Spider (Kamspin)? - Yes
- Because he does not make webs? - Correct.
[DESTIN]: Well, at least I'm done with the number 3 most poisonous spider in the world.
- But is she ready with you? - That is the question.
[DESTIN]: OK, then you are walking in the jungle, and then an entomologist tells you that this spider can affect your penis.
Of course you immediately grab the books, and you find out
that priapism is a medical emergency that has to do with the penis. And that is terrible!
So this is what we are going to do: we are going to this hospital, we are going
to search for a urology specialist. We are going to ask him what the causes of priapism are.
And secondly, and more importantly, what the treatment is for priapism. So we go in here.
And I know it's funny, hahaha, Destin talks about a penis, but think about it.
If you are a man, you must know this information.
So if I have to take it on me, I'll do that.
I will try not to blush, but if he is a urology specialist, he will
either very funny, or very boring. So I do not know. Let's get smarter every day.
Missed door. Dr. Sergey Ananyev? Am I saying that right?
- That's right. - And you're an uh ... let me film this ... a urology specialist?
And that's a ... - A laudatory whistle researcher. [laughs]
Great, OK so let me see what we do here. What is happening
with the erection? - Well, an erection is one
side effects of nerves and blood vessels that work together when a man gets excited.
Our penises consist of two rooms with one-way valves.
Those two rooms are called corpora cavernosa penis and they communicate together.
- They communicate with each other hydraulically? - As in, yes sideways, as in an opening in the wall.
- Is it priapism or preeapism (English way of pronunciation). - It's priapism
and a priapism is, by definition, an extended, unwanted erection
which usually lasts four hours or longer.
- OK, so what does that have to do with a spider in the rainforest?
Because that's why I am here. - The spider in the rainforest can,
if he gets you, a certain way
stimulate and influence, which has an effect on the molecular level
nitric oxide. Then you get a nitric oxide emission, which is a molecule. - Exactly.
- It then stimulates another molecule, which takes care of it
that the muscles in the penis relax.
- So the nitric oxide is what activates it, whatever it is ...
- That's a step, yes. To finally relax the muscle of the penis
that causes blood to flow. - OK, that's a valve?
- Uh, well, nitric oxide is only the molecule that helps to open the door
a valve, but indeed. What you actually do is: you have ... they are
as it were one-way valves where the flow of blood goes when a man is excited,
for any reason. - Yes? - Whether this comes from a partner or a spider. [laughs]
- OK. - Once the blood stream goes in, the valves close and the blood can not go out.
- You reminded me of something very strange. So I am an engineer
and when I was in school, we had to solve an equation for something that
differential equations. And that was about intake and outflow.
And the speed of inflow against the speed of outflow therefore determined how much
fluid was in it ... and then you have the differential equation with which you
mathematically can determine the speed in which that does ... what it does.
OK there is mathematics in the picture, so I feel more comfortable. The design of the penis is quite interesting.
It is like two balloons that are next to each other and you have a supply and an output in the system.
If you accelerate these steam speeds, you generate a magnifyingly controlled one
volume and that is the erection. Now Dr. Ananyev will install these prosthetic devices
in men suffering from erectile dysfunction. This happens by the way of men of all ages.
He has decided to demonstrate how this biomechanical system works in the body, just by us
to show one of these devices. So this prosthesis that you ... This is what you do, right?
You put it into the human body, right? - That is one of the many things that we do.
- These are the cavernosa, right? - These are the two corpora cavernosa penis. When one
excited, there is an increase in blood flow to both rooms.
And I will demonstrate this with the help of this mechanical pump.
- So you have a hydraulic pump and you squeeze it. - That's right.
So that pump you there and that takes the liquid from it.
- From the reservoir, which is really your blood stream.
To this organ, what your two corpora cavernosa penis are.
- OK, that's how ... - And then a one-way valve stops it
blood of it to flow away. - I get it. So if that is
happens, then ... you know ...
there are sexual activities and then ... - Do you feel a bit uncomfortable Destin? - [laughs] A little yes.
You will have to deal with uncomfortable situations all day, will not you?
- That is my defense mechanism yes. - That is amazing. So this is the output? ...
Here you have it in the same valve, so how does that happen in the human body? - In the human body,
when a man reaches a climax, certain chemicals become
released that let the valves open.
What happens in the case of a priapism, Destin, is that you have an elevated
blood flow, but instead of reaching a climax
and let the valves open and let the blood flow out,
the blood remains for an extended period of time.
Like I said before, about 4 hours or longer. And when that happens, the blood goes into it
the corpora cavernosa, as we call it, ischemic. This means that it
oxygen is remembered and if this happens, there will be lumps and
it becomes very thick. That in turn makes the problem worse,
because it is even more difficult for the thick blood to get out of it, the valves would work at all.
- So what are you doing? - There are a few ways to solve the problem.
- Oh yeah? - You can start taking a cold shower.
Let's see if I can get more tape for Mr. Skeleton.
- Does it cause permanent damage? If in: can people ... - If you do not get it within 4 hours
can reverse, it usually leads to
irreversible scars and a permanent loss of an erection. - Can you die?
- Normal ... I do not have, in my limited experience,
to see someone die of priapism, but you can certainly suffer from it. So if the cold shower
and the drugs do not work, the next step is to really
the enlarged blood
sucking in the penis with a needle.
- With a needle? - Yes that's right.
- So ... You showed me the cavernosa, there is one cavernosum on each side, so you have to
suck individually empty? - No that is not necessary. The cavernosa communicate, so ...
- They have a ... - There is one good thing. Yes, you can normally
they suck empty from one side while the other side
spontaneous ... - Depressed? Is that the term? - Yeah.
That is indeed the term. - How big is that needle?
- He's big enough to hurt. You often talk to the patient about stunting
of the area, but then you will have to prick them twice and then they feel fairly uncomfortable.
So you need to poke approximately between the corridors
with the needle and put it all the way into their cavernosum and suck something out that the thickness
has tomato paste at that time. - For real? - Or grape jelly.
- And ... Oh god. - You will have to do it several times.
Often the blood has become completely lumpy and then you will
remove the lumps and inject sterile salt and rinse
to get it out. Once you have rinsed it out, it can come back
within 50-10 minutes and then you have to repeat the process. And for the pathetic people
we will have to take more drastic measures to keep the problem back.
- [nervous] Like?
- As a step higher in size and instead of a needle, use a scalpel. Mostly
do they need sedation, or a trip to the emergency room? What you have to do then
is cutting the penis with the scalpel ... - Seriously? - And the 90
rotate degrees. - Do you ... do you seriously mean this? - Unfortunately yes.
- For real? - Mm hmm. - And then the liquid comes out
that open ... [Deep Inhalation] - It will actually create something we call a shunt
of fairly large size. That shunt will
making it buddha ... - I'm having trouble breathing now. [laughs] This is bad! - Yes.
- So how do you do at that moment ... - That's why I hate spinning.
- [laughs] Good grace! Oh man! There is actually nothing else
to say, do you? - No. - So really in the jerk?
- That's right - or is that the shine? That's called the shine, right? - Yes, that is indeed the correct name: glans penis.
- Shine? So ... Is it ... Obviously, there is damage. There follows
thereby permanent damage. That is possible, but there will certainly be permanent damage without the treatment.
- Finally: how often do you see this problem? Of course not from spider bites, but ... - Well, that depends
the neighborhood you are in, but we probably see it two or three times a year.
- So it's pretty rare. - It is fairly rare and yes there is usually
Identify one using the risk factors, whether it is one
hypersensitive disease, such as sickle cell disease, or overdose of medications
who in the first place already ensure that you come into the 'happy phase'. - Oh, I get it. Well, thank you very much for your time,
I appreciate it very much. Yeah. Best wishes. OK, in summary, I hope you will not find it
that I was too rude, vulgar, or disrespectful at any time. This is a serious problem
and I hope that I have been able to get the information in your brain in an interesting and fun way.
Now that we are serious about it: I still do not work for a salary on Friday, I am on leave.
So that's a lot like a father. That is why I am more than happy to tell you about my sponsor.
Audible.com/smarter. Audible.com has audio
books and you can go to audible.com/smarter to get one for free. They want me
tell you about a book you can listen to that has something to do with the video, but I do not think we do it
word erection need to be heard more often if we can prevent it. So I give you a better one. Love.
There is a book by CS Lewis and also read by CS Lewis in audio, called
The Four Loves. There is one word for love in Dutch. In Greek, there are four.
You have eros, agape, filia and storge.
Eros is erotic love, the video, but the other three are very interesting.
Especially stroge; I did not know that. So since I understood the four loves, my way of dealing with is
the people in my life changed. It was very interesting and I think it is good for you to view it at least.
Anyway, audible.com/smarter, you get a free audio book.
You are smart. You know what's going on here. I am Destin and you become smarter every day. Good day!
OK so how long does it take before ... I mean how long will it last?
A few years with a man? - That light on the rusting. - [laughs]
You are terrible! - It's no joke. - I get it. I can ... I can not [laughs]
This ... is a tree that grows in the rainforest.
And crazy-shaped things grow.
End.
[Original subtitles by Andrew Jackson] [Translation by Michael Atsma]
Translation to other languages ​​is very popular. Contact Destin if you want to help.